it's a big day my friends finally now
we're gonna be finishing our last Java
syntax specific video so if we look at
all the things we've done we just spent
four weeks really grinding through a new
programming language and for those of
you who already add Java experience I
hope you got something out of it and for
everybody else I hope that you've found
that it's not so crazy to learn a new
language it's not like moving from
English to Chinese or Arabic or whatever
else it's it's a closer thing right the
basic underlying abstractions are very
similar and the vocabulary is not so
large and so that said let's jump into
perhaps the most exciting thing of all
object method so what are they well
recall that every class in Java is the
hyponym of object that is a dog is an
object or a sled dog as a dog is an
object an arraylist object and so being
a hypernym object they inherit all of
these methods from this object class
which by the way is not abstract you can
do new object all day long so what are
the object methods that every object's
guaranteed to have to string equals get
class hash code clone finalize notify
notify all wait-wait-wait
now we're not gonna discuss these last
ones in any detail and 61b you can
google them and find out what they're
all about but we will use these top four
somewhat often and in fact we'll
override this first second and fourth
method here so this lecture I'm only
gonna talk about these top two in detail
and we'll talk about hash code in a
later lecture we talked about hash
tables so the first of these methods
that we're going to discuss today is the
string and basically what it represents
is the string representation of an
object so if you want to when someone
wants to print out your object let's say
you want to provide the world with a
nice string representation of say a dog
then you'll create as a string method
and this just string method we see that
we generate a string which is the
combination of the name the mood of the
dog the breed of dog the size and so
forth and in that case we then have a
nice string that captures everything
that is that dog now there's nothing
particularly interesting about if two
string method except that it's reliable
it's kind of like underscore underscore
stir or underscore underscore wrapper
and Python it's just something you can
assume is there
and as we know if you try and actually
print out an object with that it's a
string method you just get some kind of
a reference that doesn't mean anything
but methods like print line which expect
objects know that they can call the de
string method because all objects have
is a string the next one and the last
one here will be equals so as I
mentioned in an offhand manner in
previous lectures the equal equals and
dot equals methods are so the equal
equal operator and the dot equals method
they behave differently in particular if
we use equal equals in a naive way well
sometimes get results it don't work the
way we expect so here I have two arrays
x and y and they are new int arrays so
they have their different instances so
these 64 bits in these two boxes are
different they're referring to different
copies of the same information so you
and I might assume okay well x and y
those seem pretty equal so I print this
out we expect maybe to get true however
if you run this program you actually get
false and that's because what equal
equals does is compares the bits and the
boxes it says are these 64 bits the same
as these and in this case the answer is
no so the answer to this query is false
so if you want to actually test equality
well with arrays you usually use arrays
equal or if you have arrays of arrays
you'd use arrays dot DP equals and if
you have classes you have instances of
objects of some kind we would use there
dot equals method and if you want it to
work properly that means you have to
write the dot equals method because the
default implementation is equal equals
and in that case it wouldn't work if we
wanted to compare say two dates as we'll
do in a moment using the default method
so what I mean by date well this is a
class I used very briefly in one of the
earlier lectures and it just represents
a day of the year here we have the month
the day the year they're just three ants
there's a date method or the constructor
and then other stuff not shown and so
what I'm going to show you is what it's
like to write a equals method so that we
pass some tests if you'd like you can
actually just try it on your own and you
don't have to actually watch this part
of the video in order to do this I think
you can try and use your intuition you
can get pretty close and this it'll be
here in this end the lecture code repo
and I'll just jump right into that so
right what I'm showing here now is this
is the
eight class and we just had on the
previous slide and this is a test that's
gonna see if two dates are actually
equals properly so in JUnit when you
call assert equals the way it works is
it says if I call d1 a and I do dot
equals D 1 a is the answer true and if
so we'll be okay otherwise we'll throw
an error so this right here we the way
that the code actually works the way
this J unit works it relies on the
equals implementation of date which as
we know since it's not overwritten is
just the equal equal operator so this
first date is just May 10th 2010 this is
another copy of the same date then we
have D 2 and so this test assuming that
we've written an equals method that
works we should pass it now if we run it
will see that we fail and in fact we
fail on the second line so D 1 a is
considered D 1 a because they're equal
equals however D 1 a and D 1 B are not
equal so let's try writing an equals
method so I might do public boolean in
this case equals we'll do date o D and
then we'll do some stuff now one issue
that I want to bring up here before I
even start writing code is that when you
override a method you should always put
override okay I just put it because one
of the things you'll find is that maybe
you screwed up in your method signature
here I messed up when I said override I
didn't actually override the method
which is supposed to be if we go look at
the method signature must be equals
object so in other words we need to
change this object and that's incredibly
important because if we didn't do that
then it's never gonna call this method
assert equals is gonna continue to call
the default method because dynamic
method selection won't know how to find
this okay so by the way make sure you
always put override so you don't make
silly mistakes like that okay now what
well now I want to determine our two
objects actually or two dates equal well
first I'm gonna say I will do out of
date equals cast this object and then
we'll simply say if we'll go through
each of the fields if month is not equal
to at a date dot month then we'll return
false
if day is not equal to uh today day
return false if year is not equal to a
tad a year or return false and then
finally will return true now we can be a
little smarter about this but and not
put it all in a bunch of different lines
but I'm just gonna leave it this way
because it reads easily so now in theory
this this method here should work what's
my warning here if statement can be
simplified sure all right
I know all right so now I'm gonna run a
equals test and in this case it still
fails in this case on line fourteen so
it got through these all perfectly fine
but it failed on horse and the issue is
java.lang string cannot be cast to date
so our method it's very important that's
capable of handling any object at all
and so in this case the way we're gonna
do it is will say if now we're going to
rely on one of those other object
methods we're gonna say if this doesn't
get class equally equals Oh get class
actual do not equals so if they're not
the same class then we'll return false
yeah it's a little meta when we run it
things work better and now we get to
line 15 where we crash and in this case
the issue is null right in this case
we're trying to get null get class and
so the fix here is simply to say if Oh
equals null will return false
immediately now all of this code here
will work and pass our test okay and I
did and so that's roughly what an equals
method looks like you have to do an old
check you have to do a class check you
have to do a cast you have to check all
the fields now this version I have on
the slide is just a little cleaner than
the version we had before and it has one
extra trick which is it says if this is
equal equal to X return true and this is
just an optimization because if the
actual pointers are equal that is the
references are the same then the same 64
bits then there's no need to do all this
work so this is just the speed
optimization and the rest is for
correctness so I'll just mention earlier
I said there were some rules finished
something I mentioned earlier which is
there are some rules in Java which for
how equals is supposed to work
so it must be an equivalence relation as
we call it in math it needs to be
reflexive X must equal itself it needs
to be symmetric x equals y will be true
if and only if Y also equals x and it
must also be transitive if x equals y
and y equals z then it must be the case
that x equals z now the compiler is not
smart enough to check all these things
but all kinds of java code out there
assumes that it's a Bayes all of these
properties and if your equals doesn't
then you can run into trouble and we'll
see a little funny example of this later
when we talk about randomization we must
also in addition to following these
rules we need to always take an object
argument so you cannot take a date
argument as we saw we need to be
consistent so if x equals y then they
must be continued to be equal as long as
neither changes so it can't just be say
a random number that would just be a
strange thing if anything about the if
nothing in the two classes changes in
the two instances then they must
continue to be equal and it must also be
never true for a null so it's always
gonna return false if you say x equals
null ok so that's everything we need to
know about the core of Java and as I've
said you know there's plenty of Java out
there we haven't covered but this is
enough from here we're gonna expect you
to find the syntax the libraries that
you need though I asked on project 2
you'd be very careful don't go use
things using things like the Apache
Commons library please use the built-in
library so we have a list that are ok
and the reason there is we don't want to
take away from the educational
opportunity if you go out there and
download for example a table dot jar
right like that's just silly
then you defeated the whole point of the
project so don't do that the there will
be extra optional syntax videos for
those of you who want to learn about
some more advanced Java syntax topics
like type erasure some more messy things
about generics and you know you'll see
what those videos are if you want those
are not required you don't have to use
them in your projects they won't appear
on exams or if they do appear on exams
they'll be a full description of how it
works from scratch but I won't be mean
and you know throw something in there do
you wanna and then from here now we're
gonna launch into our big-picture data
structures and algorithms the textbook
that I'm a little behind on as of the
time of recording this particular video
well it ends now
and there's an optional textbook for the
second half of the class for those of
you who want readings for the data
structures and algorithms part so the
lectures are gonna kind of lighten the
load a little bit while you're working
on the big project too and then after
that we'll pick up with some more
aggressive tricky ideas but we're gonna
slow down the pace for the next four
videos or so if you're somebody just
doing the class online I encourage you
to actually do check out our project too
because I think it's a great experience
for everybody all the resources are
available on the web except maybe the
auto grader and I think it's something
that is an important part of the course
okay see you in the next video